LinkedIn organic reach has tanked like
crazy. Is it still worth it?
>> If you start with paid incentivization,
I can see it getting quite complex quite
quickly. So, there are just settings
that are left on by default, which will
just ruin your campaign's performance.
Just bad news, bad news, bad news.
>> You think your dream client's going to
resonate with an article that says, "How
to turbocharge your SAS in three
clicks?" That just sounds like jargon.
In 12 to 18 months time, the only
content and ads worth making will be the
how to actually drive pipeline on
LinkedIn as a B2B company and how you
can finally win on LinkedIn organic and
paid. I'm joined by George Terry,
creative director over at Winbox.
George, how you doing, sir?
>> Very good, thank you. If I just hold
this myself.
>> Yeah. Yeah, hold it, man. How's it
going?
>> Yeah, it's good. We are out here on a on
a kind of not very sunny but warm enough
day. And yeah, happy to chat about
LinkedIn ads. So, let's start off with a
big one because I know everyone I say
everyone a lot of folks I speak to say
stuff like LinkedIn ads are too
expensive or I've tried LinkedIn ads but
I just can't get them working. I'd
rather go with other channels or
likewise LinkedIn organic reach has
tanked like crazy. Is it still worth it?
But I'd love to hear kind of some of the
biggest kind of mistakes, blunders, or
just like big lies that you hear when it
comes to LinkedIn for B2B right now.
>> Yeah, I think um all of those questions
and complaints are valid. We did an
event not so long ago down in London and
we were exhibiting and we had a stand
and people would they'd come up to the
stand like one after the net and say, "I
tried LinkedIn ads and it and it didn't
work." So, it's a really it's a really
common pain point and I think it comes
down to like a couple of things.
LinkedIn's done a pretty good job of
making campaign manager feel kind of
selfs served but it's quite a complex
channel and campaign manager is quite a
complex environment and things that have
a huge impact on your campaign and
whether or not it's going to work like
whether or not it's going to come close
to working are not obvious. So there are
just settings that are left on by
default. One of them called LinkedIn
audience network which I talk about
quite a lot on LinkedIn which will just
ruin your campaign's performance and
it's on by default and it basically
means that by the way if you want to
start driving pipeline and revenue
through SEO on Google organic search and
now LLMs, why not grab a call with me
over at breakingb2tb.com or hit the link
in the description below. Right back to
the video. and it's on by default and it
basically means that while you think
you're running ads in the newsfeed on
LinkedIn, it's distributing those ads
off site to like third party publishers
and that just wrecks your targeting,
artificially inflates your click-through
rate. It's just bad news, bad news, bad
news. So often when people have that
experience and that question of, you
know, I tried it and it didn't work,
when you dig into, well, what did you do
and like how long did you run the test
for and who was managing it ultimately?
Because if you're trying this thing for
the first time, it's like any channel.
If you just jump in and try and do SEO
without knowing anything about SEO or
like where it's at right now, it's going
to be really hard. It's not going to
work. And LinkedIn ads is the same. So,
I think in terms of those kind of like
complaints and those questions, I hear
them a lot, but usually when you dig
into it, you're able to explain to
people why it didn't work and what they
should do next time.
>> Does that make sense?
>> Yeah.
>> That's probably one big mistake that you
see when it comes to the ad side of
things. Would you say there's one or two
or possibly a couple more when it comes
to the more organic side of things of
LinkedIn from a B2B lens?
>> Yeah, I think the big one and this is
true for organic and paid is seeing it
as a channel that's ultimately about
brands and for brands because that's not
how LinkedIn's users see it. So
LinkedIn's users, they don't log on like
wanting to connect or interact with
brands at all. Like people want to hang
out with people and every social network
is like that. LinkedIn's rolled out
these new ad format, thought leader ads,
which has really changed the game, I
think, for marketers because it means
that now rather than having to do
everything from your brand account and
as a result getting like just much worse
traction in the feed and much worse
visibility, you can now use your people.
One of the biggest mistakes I think
brands can make right now is not getting
that shift that like LinkedIn is not
about brands. It is 100% about people.
The best way to cut through in the feed
and like get your story out there is to
use your people. In the past, we got
really comfortable with like hiding our
team behind the logo and being like,
"It's all about the brand account. It's
all about the logo." I just think like
if your CEO or founder or key people
from your senior leadership team or
internal thought leaders aren't out
there batting for the brand, that's a
massive disadvantage right now. Cuz if
your competitors do have that, what
they're doing is going to be much, much
more interesting than what you're doing.
>> It almost feels like an unfair
advantage. Even though LinkedIn organic
reach is dropping, there's still the
chance that you can connect with your
ICP. You can still publish content,
whether that's videos, memes, text
posts, interviews like we're doing now,
talking head, whatever. So, you can
build up, I guess, trust with your
target prospects. So, when they have the
problem you solve or they have questions
around your niche or when they
eventually need your solution, like you
say, they're not scrolling LinkedIn
because they have intent to purchase.
They're scrolling it because maybe
they're trying to learn or they're bored
or they're flicking through or they want
to learn something or something like
that. So if you're the valuable source
and you've got whether it is your
founder, marketing leaders, revenue
leaders that are putting out that kind
of stuff to keep top of mind your ICP,
then it's almost like an unfair cheat
code. Like you say, if you can boost it
with thought leadership ads,
>> it's a solid way to go. So talked about
some mistakes. Let's move on to for B2B
companies, whether they're SASbased,
software based, whether they're service
based. What would you say are some of
the first steps? Feel free to start with
paid or organic, whatever
>> floats your boat, hence the boat
background. Um, what are some of the
first steps that these companies should
take when it comes to I guess looking at
it from an angle of we want to drive
pipeline? What should we be doing
initially?
>> Yeah, I'll start with organic. The first
step and the bit that I think people
often don't do and it's the kind of
boring answer that everyone kind of
wants to not do but probably should is
just content strategy. And the way I do
that on LinkedIn is a you know if you're
a decent company you would already know
a bit about your customer and why they
buy the product. So what are the pain
points? What are the category entry
points? Where are you meeting people
right at that early stage in the buyer
journey? And then take those things and
go and look on LinkedIn like who's
creating around these topics like what
formats matter, what topics matter,
what's cutting through, which specific
creators are big, which brand accounts
are in that space, your probably your
competitors, or at least it should be.
And just get a picture of how is that
working right now on the channel. Cuz
without that picture, you're just going
to be learning by trial and error, which
is really slow and really expensive.
Whereas the way you want to do it is you
want to be like, what's working on the
channel right now in my niche? reverse
engineer your way into that conversation
which is just a much quicker way of
doing it. Also just do all of the
standard like content strategy stuff
that you should do which is define you
know your content pillars create
objectives and KPIs so you can know
broadly speaking are we getting what we
thought we'd be getting when we kind of
set aside the budget to do this as we've
just been talking about like it's not
just about brands it's about people as
well. So, I'd look internally for
content creators. And they don't have to
be a CEO. They can just be people who
like are naturally quite good
communicators. They don't even have to
be in marketing. Like good communicators
who are interesting and enjoy putting
themselves out there. If you find a few
of those people and say, "Right, we're
going to give you some budget to create
content." That's going to be much much
better than getting like an halfhour
slot with your CEO once a month and he
doesn't or she doesn't want to be there
and trying to force them to make some
content. So create that kind of pool of
content creators and thought leaders
once you've got your strategy and they
have kind of like your your distribution
channels in a way then you can just get
going and just like start simple as
always with content like obviously you
know you guys do stuff like this and and
that's amazing but it would have taken
you a long time to get here and you
don't want to start by doing stuff like
this just start by like simple text and
image posts and then just get more kind
of confident over time. I think video is
a bit daunting for a lot of people
still. So, you know, maybe have that one
like 6 months in, start to talk about
video and do some of that. Yeah, just
publish and learn.
>> Good stuff. And I've been thinking about
this a bit. Let's pretend your CEO or
your founder is not keen to actively
post on LinkedIn organically. would you
advise if you've got like you say if
you've got folks in your company that do
have that are happy to post whether that
is your marketing team revenue team
operations whoever but they've got a
point of view perhaps they're happy to
do video content they're happy to do
written posts they're happy to somewhat
link it back to product so it's not just
random stuff posting about anything and
everything is stuff that's whether it's
top middleunnel bottom funnel content
that's telling stories around your offer
helpful tips among FAQs or stuff that's
actually can have tie back to a business
impact I'm actually thinking about
setting up programs where I say, "Look,
if you're happy to do it, I'll pay you."
Cuz I know that that's going to come
back to the business like 10fold. Yeah.
But it's not for everyone. Like you say,
some people just that's just not their
way of doing things. They'd rather be
kind of behind the scenes as opposed to
front and center. But I don't know what
your thoughts on that cuz you're
obviously a LinkedIn ads agency and and
what you encourage clients who you work
with to do.
>> Yeah. God, it's an interesting question.
I've never thought about people
deserving to be paid. I think that it's
a bit of a win-win. Like it's a win for
both people. If you have people who are
kind of interested in social media, like
creating content, and you're basically
saying, "We're going to give you budget
and time to create content, build up
your own organic audience, in a way,
they kind of are getting something back
for it." If they end up blowing up and
becoming like a well-known content
creator in your industry, they might
come back to you and say, "I want a
payriseise."
Which is fair enough. But I don't think
I'd start with payment. I'd treat as a
collaboration. and say, you know, the
business is going to cuz, you know,
content creation does cost money and the
business is going to fit the bill for
that and and you'll kind of do it
together. If you start with paid
incentivization, I can see it getting
quite complex quite quickly. You may
also end up with people who are doing it
like only to kind of gain that incentive
as opposed to like a more long-term
need. I can see it going kind of wrong,
but I'm not sure how.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Fair. So with that in
mind, you talked about kind of building
the strategy, looking for folks on your
team that are going to be, I guess, more
up for creating content and such. I
guess we know that it's very rare that
someone does one post and that that
start driving demos or signups or booked
calls depending on what your company's
kind of go to market and conversion
point is. But are there I guess
tactically ways that we know if we do
XYZ let's say practically speaking like
we do this this post one day this post
the next day this post the next day and
we know that we're doing posts whether
they're kind of topfunnel informational
based or more bottom of funnel like this
is exactly how we did this got this
result and this this is a step by step.
Are there things like that you're seeing
for for companies that tend to work on a
I guess mid to long-term basis that
actually kind of move the needle when it
comes to driving pipeline? What your
thoughts there? Yeah, definitely.
They're not to do with LinkedIn. The
ones that are top of mind for me right
now that I still see massive value and
regularly chat to, you know, we work
with a lot of companies, regularly chat
to marketing teams, webinar and event
like it's old school and it's not
LinkedIn, but you cannot go wrong with
small groups of actual customers
discussing what they're struggling with
and you're there as the expert right in
the room to help solve those problems
and kind of facilitate that
conversation. We ran an event at
LinkedIn's headquarters uh the week
before last had like 30 CMOs in there
talking about LinkedIn ABM and
afterwards I just thought that was so
worth doing. Um we do webinars right now
like quarterly every other month and
again I've never done one even when
there's only like 10 people on it. I
still think that was so worth doing. I
had some great conversations actually
met some people. So I think those kind
of smallcale tactics that don't scale,
it's often a dissatisfying answer for
marketers cuz they want things which are
massively scalable, but often the things
that don't scale are the ones where you
actually build the real relationship. I
think in terms of LinkedIn specifically
and like the type of content or the type
of tactics that do work. One mistake
that I often uh see people make with
their ads is they'll be running their
conversion campaigns. So they're
retargeting campaigns. You can do them
with lead genen forms or you can you do
them with single image ads and drive the
traffic off site. If you're driving the
traffic off site, definitely send that
traffic to a place which is optimized to
convert. So a really common pain that
people come to us and they're like our
campaigns aren't converting and you go
and look at like where they're sending
that traffic. It's just a random product
page. It's like that's why it's not
converting because it's not a a
destination which is likely to convert.
So you need to make it really easy for
people to convert on that next step. I
also just think that for most of our
clients, this is like a fun thing that I
like to do in campaign manager where I
just go and look at the device
breakdown, some of our clients,
especially ones that are in the more
kind of SAS space, like 90% of the
people engaging with the ads are on on
phones. Those people are just less
likely to convert cuz forms are really
annoying on mobile. So, it's also about
like making peace with the fact that
like not everything you do on LinkedIn
is about conversion. And if those people
were going to convert by clicking on an
ad, often they will just end up
converting of their own valition at some
point in the future. Anyway, like we
find for for our clients and certainly
we've helped our clients in their
analytics and taking a look most of
their conversions come from like branded
search or direct traffic. Now you ask a
question like well how do they hear
about the brand name there? It's those
tactics like LinkedIn which are like
building brand. So yeah in terms of
conversions that's kind of summarize
events and webinars are the ones that
I'm really interested in and speaking to
a lot of marketers about right now. In
terms of on LinkedIn, I kind of make
peace with the fact that like it won't
always be possible to attribute a
massive number of conversions to
LinkedIn, but you can see through the
other performance like metrics, they are
involved in what gets people there.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I like that. We talk
about that. I talk about that so many
times on solo episodes of breaking B2B
like we'll get inbound booked calls
where they'll put on the how did you
hear about us part of the calendarly
booking heard about you I know on the
podcast or SEO and I'll say we'll get on
to the sales discovery call and I'll say
so how did you stumble upon us? Like
what was the full journey you took? and
they might be like, "Oh yeah, we Googled
SAS SEO Agency, had a look at your
website. Then I checked out your
podcast. Then I subscribed to the
newsletter for 3 months. This has
actually happened." And then I followed
you on LinkedIn for a while. Then I
brought out my team and a couple months
later we actually realized we definitely
do need to do SEO now. Spoke to my team
again. Then we decided we're ready to
put this call. And few months later, we
ended up signing up as clients. So it
just shows you like you say, I'm big on
really big on B2B ecosystem marketing
right now.
>> Yeah. Cuz like you said, it's especially
if what you're selling is not cheap in
the sense that it's like several grand a
year average contract value like 20, 30,
40, 50k plus.
>> Yeah.
>> People don't just suddenly decide that
they need the solution. They go through
a series of events. They have a problem.
They live with it for a while. becomes
more and more frustrating for them,
their team, what becomes of it, and
eventually they they do their research,
whether that is LinkedIn, asking their
peers, Googling, ChatGBT, seeing your
LinkedIn ads, checking your website, and
it's all kind of the more you can be in
those places that your dream clients
trust to get useful information, the
more likely I guess you are to be top of
mind and be the the right choice.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, moving on, I'd like to know, taking
a different spin. We talked a bit about
organic, bit about paid. What is one
unusual take? We're recording this
October 2025 in the next year. What's a
what's a hot take on what you think is
going to be a winner
>> for for B2B on LinkedIn?
>> B2B on LinkedIn. Hot take. I reckon in
12 to 18 months time, the only content
and ads worth making will be the stuff
that AI can't make. I think that very
quickly it will be like what has
happened to the low-end content
marketing market, right? Which is has
just been completely nerfed by chat GPT
and as a result it may as well not
exist. Like nobody reads those blogs.
They get published in their hundreds.
They're totally rubbish. You know from
the opening sentence that they've been
written by Chat GPT. They don't rank cuz
Google just screens them out. They don't
perform on social because they're so
boring and generic. Maybe it's just the
optimist in me or the side of me that
wants to be optimistic about my career,
but I am like not worried at all about
the likelihood that AI will be replacing
stuff like what we're doing now. Like
actual people having actual
conversations. And I think that there's
so much hype around, you know,
everyone's like, "Look at this AI
influencer." Right? When I say everyone,
what I mean is marketers. If you went
like to people in the street and you
were like, "Are you influenced by this
AI avatar?" They'd be like, "No, cuz
it's not real." So I think that like
people and the uniqueness and like
humanity of people and the kind of
messiness of the content they create and
the authenticity of it will become like
the only moat in marketing that's left
cuz everything else will just be quick
and cheap and easy and infinitely
scalable. Is that a hot take?
I think it's a decent take. I've been
saying some similar stuff actually like
in person is it feels like it's coming
back cuz like you say it's now so easy
like in our game B2B SAS SEO everyone
worries that oh why can't we just
generate like a dozen blog post in a
click of a button it's like yeah you
could do that but you're selling
software that's 50 100k a year do you
think your dream client's going to
resonate with an article that says how
to turbocharge your SAS in three clicks
with our all-in-one all singing all
dancing like revenue focused platforms
like that just sounds like jargon
there's no customer research there is
that addressing a real pain point from
your prospect. Is that something they'd
actually say on a sales call or a
customer success call? Um so I think
like you said like leveraging real
things that can't be replicated, real
point of views and then a bit like we're
doing now like spinning that in a way
that's a bit different, a bit unusual um
with proven frameworks. So like that
George enjoyed the chat. Do tell
everyone that's listening or watching us
by this lovely harbor the best way to
learn more about you folks and get in
touch.
>> Yeah, sure. LinkedIn. Unsurprisingly,
you can follow myself there, George
Terry, my business partner, Mark
Woodland, and you can check out our
website at winimbox.co. We got loads of
case studies. We share content all the
time breaking down like what we're doing
for our clients right now, what's
working and and what's kind of not
working so well, but used to. So, yeah,
come check us out.
Cheers.